About me
========


Carmelo Velardo obtained his MSc in Computer Science Engineer both from "Politecnico di Torino" (Turin, Italy) and from EURECOM (Sophia Antipolis, France).
He also achieved his Master for research studies from the “Ecole Doctorale STIC” (Sophia Antipolis, France) in "Image and geometry for multimedia and life modelling". 

After a short break as research assistant at the Universal Design Group of the Panasonic San Jose Laboratory in 2007, he then completed his Master studies at EURECOM to join later on as PhD student. 

In 2012 he successfully defended his PhD dissertation on “Anthropometry and Soft Biometrics for Smart Monitoring” under the supervision of Professor Jean-Luc Dugelay (EURECOM).

The same year he joined the Institute of Biomedical Engineering of the University of Oxford as Post Doctoral Research Assistant where he collaborates with Professor Lionel Tarassenko.

His interests include digital health systems, mobile health and ambient assisted living applications, patient behaviour and interaction with computerised systems, signal processing and machine learning.

He is now involved in several projects that intend to provide a unified, clinically validated approach to self-management and self-monitoring of chronic conditions (COPD, diabetes, heart failure, gestational diabetes, obesity).


=== 

Carmelo Velardo is Senior researcher in Digital Health at the Institute of Biomedical Engineering and Departmental Lecturer at the Department of Engineering Science, University of Oxford, United Kingdom. Dr. Velardo’s work over the past 8 years (2008-2012 at Eurecom, since 2012 in Oxford) has spanned the topics of signal processing for novel Biometrics and Biomedical applications. He has participated to over 11 national and international research projects and has published 28 original research articles. 
His recent research aims at the use of mobile-Health solutions to support patients suffering from chronic conditions. He has designed and developed a customisable, scalable client-server platform to allow engineers and clinicians to set up mobile-Health interventions in a very short time. The mobile-Health systems created by this platform collect data from patients (through a series of health sensors and questionnaires) and from electronic health record systems (within the NHS network). They also create reports for clinicians and patients and generate fully personalised automatic alerts. To achieve high usability and compliance rates he follows a user-centred design approach relying on information obtained actively and unobtrusively by the users. Actively, by organising interviews, co-design workshops, and questionnaires; unobtrusively, by using app analytics and statistics. His work has been used in several randomised controlled trials, and is now part of GDm-health, the first app to go through the NICE app endorsement process.

===
(88 words)
Carmelo is Senior researcher in Digital Health at the Institute of Biomedical Engineering and Departmental Lecturer at the Department of Engineering Science, University of Oxford, United Kingdom. His work over the past 8 years has spanned the topics of signal processing for Biometrics and Biomedical applications. His current research focusses on the use of mobile-Health solutions to support patients suffering from chronic conditions and the clinicians looking after them. His work has been used in several randomised controlled trials, and has also been implemented in several NHS Trusts.



===
(88 words)
Carmelo is the Expert in residence at LAB10x where he accompanies the successful teams through their path to growth and where he acts as point of contact between LAB10x, the University of Oxford, and the Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
In his role as Senior research fellow at Sensyne Health he oversees the R&D and the development of machine learning algorithms to support the Digital health products.
He has been doing research in companies such as Motorola and Panasonic, and universities such as ParisTech and the University of Oxford for more than 10 years, 7 of which spent in Digital health applied to the management of chronic conditions.



===
(88 words)
Carmelo has over ten years' experience in research and development, biometrics, data science, and digital health. He has an MSc in Computer Engineering from Polytechnic of Turin, and a PhD in Signal Processing from Telecom ParisTech.
For seven years, as Senior Researcher and Lecturer at the Department of Engineering Science of the University of Oxford, he focussed on digital health applied to the management of chronic conditions such as COPD, diabetes, heart failure, and has collaborated with hundreds among consultants, GPs, nurses, midwives, and especially patients.
He is now Senior research fellow at Sensyne Health where he oversees the R&D and development of machine learning algorithms to support the Digital health products. He co-authored more than 50 scientific articles.


